Carlos, thank you very much for being here.
thanks to.
I would like you to tell us what
the design of a digital product
is, how the process is, what
the keys are, or if there is
any method.
We always start, like Lin,
by the learning phase.
For us, that is the most important,
that is the one we spend the
most time with.
Einstein said he spent 55 minutes
thinking about the problem and
5 minutes thinking about the
solution.
We always spend more time
on this phase of research,
research, learning.
This is a type of research
we call qualitative
research.
There is also quantitative
research, which consists more in looking
at data, which is usually done
more during the measurement phase,
but qualitative research consists
in understanding the problems
of users.
How is?
Talking to Users.
In product design we have a maximum
that is, you are not your user.
We at OnTrack all have them
relatively easy because none
of us have a truck, none of
us ship goods.
It is true that when you are a
customer of something, a user of something,
it is easier, it is actually easier,
to give things, the hypothesis, of
course, because when you are a
customer, you put yourself in the
situation, but in our case as a
customer, because you do not have
the tendency to do, to make that
mistake.
It’s easier and far more dangerous
too, because in the end your
product if it solves you just
one problem you won’t get
anywhere.
You need to make sure your
product or service solves
pains that many users share.
How do you do it, how do you analyze
those problems when you want
to create, when you have, when
you do a process of creating
a new product, how do you do that
research of the problems?
Talking to users is
the key.
You have to empathize with
users, put yourself in their
skin, look at problems from the
user’s own point of view.
Until you do this really you are
not able to understand exactly
where the problem is.
One common mistake
is to confuse problems
with solutions.
We look for problems to solve,
but the most natural way
to communicate a problem is
through a solution.
So much of our work consists
in separating solutions
from problems and getting
to detect the problem behind
something that is given to us.
Can you give them some specific
example of identification on
OnTrack or in any of the other
companies you have participated in?
How did you take this first step
in identifying a problem?
Curiously, we at OnTrack, unlike
many companies and many startups,
do not work with a roadmap
of functionality.
We do not have any plans
on what features we will incorporate
into our products in the coming
months.
We are working on a roadmap of
problems and this is key.
We often apply our product
design process to
each of these problems.
The result of that process is often
a new functionality, other times
it is to introduce a new process,
other times it is to decide that
this problem is not worth solving
it or we have come to the point
of identifying a problem that
was generating that first problem
that has called our attention.
And here we get a lot of solutions
and we have to do that job
of peeling the solution
until we find the root
problem.
What you said about the roadmap
of problems rather than solutions
or functionality, etc., really
seems brilliant to me because if
anyone who has been involved
in a company of a certain
phase of product development,
etc., everyone knows that what
we have in mind or always is
projected is to incorporate
over time a number of
additional functionalities.
And this is excessively central
product, when what you do is really
much brighter and it is to forget
our functionalities and that everything
is born of the customer, much
more client-centric, that is
born of the problems that
the customer has, that I imagine
that the problems will change
or you will identify
them with time.
We have very changing
roadmaps.
This we in UX and design call
Featuritis.
When you think that adding features
to your product will make your
product better and more
interesting for users.
When what we know, so what
we know of user experience
design, reality tends to be
as simple as it is a product.
The more things you get to remove
from your product that do not help
solve the main problem that the
user has, the better, because
the easier to use will be that
product.
Less cognitive load will generate
on the user who interacts with that
product.
and perfect.
We will move forward in the process.
The second phase we do in
our design process is a phase
of divergence.
Never fall in love with your first idea.
Always think about alternative
solutions.
This is more difficult than it seems.
Your brain, at the moment a solution
arrives, asks you to download
resources and move on to something else,
stop thinking so intensely
about something.
So, you need to have mechanisms
to force yourself to think
about a problem for enough time,
to think about many possible
solutions.
There are many exercises
that help us in this
process.
OnTrack uses one called
Crazy Eats.
It is an exercise that we do
by inviting people from many
different profiles.
In fact, the best solutions often
do not come from designers,
they come from business people,
from tech people, from people
of operations.
So we take that advantage, use
them, call for sessions of about
half an hour with five or six
different profiles and ask them
to pick up a folio and double
it into eight parts.
When you reopen it, at the end of the day,
what you have left is a kind of sheet
with eight different vignettes.
We give you a quick, very
schematic idea or write
a possible solution to a problem.
There are many ways to do this, by
tossing a lot, putting restrictions
or the sky is the limit.
Often, depending on how much
time you have and where you
want to go, not putting any kind
of restriction can help ideas
that initially seem very crazy
plant, communicate
and that often leads to
really interesting ideas.
Then we give 30 seconds in which people
are forced to sketch very quickly
and when that process is
over each one tells the rest
of the group their possible
solutions.
This is not design by committee,
we do not design by committee,
we know that it does not
work, but it allows us to
channel very different ideas that
would not have happened
to us as designers from our prisma
and that leads us to the next
phase of the process that
is the conversion
phase, of writing.
At this point you have this sheet for
all the number of people who have participated,
that is, you have a multitude of possible
solutions to the problems you have
identified and we really
do not choose a solution
in a democratic way, we do
not vote for the one we like the
most.
There is a person who is responsible
for deciding what solution
has been put.
The solution is a combination of several
ideas that have arisen here, but
it is not a democratic process.
We have listened to everyone, we have
done a good research, we have
all the information and with that
context there is someone who decides.
We will bet on this solution.
One is chosen.
We are in the final phase, right?
The last stage is the prototyping
phase.
Architect Frank Lloyd Wright used
to say, I prefer to use a
rubber slurry on the drawing
table than a tire hammer
on the work.
It makes a lot of sense.
If you can very quickly prototype
something that looks very much
like your final solution, whether
it’s a new product, a new functionality,
a new screen and text it with
users, you’ll learn things
very quickly that will allow
you to see if your solution
is really good or not.
And that brings us to the final
phase that is the texting phase with
users of that prototype.
Usually five users are enough.
With five users you start observing
patterns.
And you can determine in almost every
case whether your solution
is good enough or not.
This exercise you are
saying to test is a qualitative
learning, because now
we will have more details.
This exercise you are saying
to test with five users, in
this case the MVP or the prototype,
as we want to call it, could
have saved millions and millions
and millions to a lot of companies
that have jumped it or done
it badly or did it too late,
because they did what you
are saying with five users,
but they did it after
spending it...
The most common mistake is to do it when
you have already built your solution.
That is.
And you draw exactly the same
conclusions from a prototype that
you have also cost a midday to implement.
One important thing when you’re doing
exercise with users is not looking
for opinions, looking for reactions.
You don’t go to a user with
a prototype asking if you like this
or it looks nice or you would pay
for it.
What you want is to observe
the user interacting with
your solution, make sure first
that you are solving a problem
and secondly that the
solution is good enough.
This is a summary of the entire
process.
Come to.
You have told us that it is something
that many companies, especially those
that have a certain attraction,
because when we are talking about who
makes an idea, it is easier to start
from that problem, but when you
are talking, for example, of
OnTrack, in which you are already a
product that works, a model of marketability,
etc., it is very easy to fall
into the roadmap of the functionalities
and you do what you are always
incorporating the perspective
of the customer and you are
starting out of the problem.
From there, the next process,
always the next step in the
process, is the divergence.
Hear, force yourself to think about
many possible solutions to this
problem before falling in love with any.
In fact, you should never fall
in love with any solution, right?
But before you bet on one, force
yourself to think about many solutions
and for this we use exercises
like the one I have commented
on that force you to go through
that process.
I have experienced something
else, and many more people have
experienced it, is that in
this second phase of choosing
the solution, it is often
chosen by the person who is
above the error range.
It is an error.
You have to win the best idea, either
from the CEO or from the last fellow
who has entered the company
and invited your divergence
process.
So, we have already made the
divergence and we have a lot of possible
solutions and one is chosen.
You have to bet on one.
What happens is that the next
step is to test it as soon
as possible.
and correct.
Build a prototype that allows you
to obtain the maximum information
about your solution in the
shortest possible time and know if
you are on the right track or not.
If the results of that user
test are good, go ahead.
The link building phase.
If the result is not entirely
good, take a step back, return
to the prototyping phase, apply
what you just learned and test
with users again.
If the result is a disaster, you
have not understood the problem
correctly or it doesn’t exist.
Return to the first box.